# S3 based exercises

This kata will give you a list of tasks that will allow you to practice using the aws-cli to interact with S3.  Of aws-cli capabilities, this is the one we do the most often.

## Goals

The goals of this exercise are to:

- Practice copying files do and from S3
- Get a list of of S3 files and working with that list
- Create and delete a temporary S3 bucket.  Any S3 bucket we use for anything long term should be created and managed with terraform.
- 

## Instructions

The following sections are intended to be high level steps that should
be followed in order.  These are not intended to be detailed step-by-step instructions but instead should lead you through the kata exercise.

### Setup Toolchain

No additional setup is needed.

### Exercise steps

To do the following excercises, open a terminal window and run the appropriate command

- Review the aws s3 cli help
  - ```aws s3 help```
- Creating an S3 bucket
  - Create an s3 bucket with a name of dn-{yourname}
  - ```
    aws s3api create-bucket \
    --bucket dn-{yourname} \
    --region us-east-1
    ```
  - verify the bucket exists in the S3 console
- Copy some files up to your S3 bucket
  - Copy one or more files from your local system to your bucket
  - ```aws s3api put-object --bucket dn-{yourname} --key {remote file name} --body {local file name}```
  - ```aws s3 cp {local file} s3://{bucket}/{remote file}```
  - NOTE: you can include -r to copy recursively
- List the contents of an S3 bucket
  - Get a list of the files in your bucket
  - ```aws s3 ls {bucket}```
  - Try it with a bigger bucket.  Run the following commands
    - ```aws s3 ls docnetwork-reports```
    - ```aws s3 ls --recursive docnetwork-reports```
    - ```aws s3 ls --recursive docnetwork-reports --prefix ```
    - ```aws s3 ls --recursive docnetwork-reports --human-readable --summarize```

- Copy a file from S3 to your local machine
- Update file and copy back up to S3

- Move a file in S3 to rename it
  - ```aws s3 mv s3://{bucket}/{existing key} s3://{bucket}/{new key}```

- Delete a file in S3
  - ```aws s3 rm s://{bucket}/{key}```

### Cleanup

- Delete your bucket
  - ```aws s3api delete-bucket --bucket {bucket}```


## External References:
- https://docs.aws.amazon.com/cli/latest/reference/s3/
- https://docs.aws.amazon.com/cli/latest/reference/s3api/
